Week 1 Pre-assessment Activity

Mark Roberta (CID: 02179784)

Motivation for taking Imperial’s MLDS MSc.:

I have been in software development for over 35 years now, having performed the roles of programmer, lead developer, team leader, project manager and solution architect.  The further I got away from the technical side the less happy I became.  Consequently, I chose to manage a SPARK based project and allocated myself a part-time role as developer, using Pyspark: which I am finding very interesting! With a “Big Data” platform and the available “Data Lakes” there have been calls to exploit these resources using Data Science methods and Machine Learning.  This pricked my interest in these areas and I subsequently allocated some time to investigate Machine Learning. The rest, as they say, is history.

I will soon be retiring and want to find something I can pursue when I am finished working.  So, I looked at online universities that provided further education in the areas of Machine Learning and Data Science.  Imperial’s MSc in “Machine Learning and Data Science” looked the best option available: Imperial has a good academic reputation and met specific logistic requirements.  What I particularly liked was that the course was aimed at giving the mathematical tools behind Machine Learning and Data Science.  This meant that I should have the ground knowledge to understand new techniques and models in Machine Learning and Data Science as they arise in the future.

Career Aspirations after taking Imperial’s MLDS MSc.:

As I mentioned above, I will soon be retiring, hence I don’t have any real career goals once I complete this course.  Indeed, I hope that, when I have completed the course, I will still be as keen to progress and learn as I am now.  If that were the case I would hope it would be possible to further my education, perhaps doing a PhD.

Ideas for Research Project:

I have taken a brief look at some Machine Learning areas such as Supervised Learning and Reinforcement Learning.  In the case of the former I looked at simple Linear Regression and Deep Learning models.  Deep Learning, at the level I investigated it, looked more of an art than a science.  Reinforcement Learning did look interesting as, I would assume, this would be very useful in the area of robotics.  I looked at the Bellman Equations as a starter in this area.

Preferences, if available, are:
1.	Reinforcement Learning based project.
2.	Deep Learning based project
